fix(commander): report Descend as a distinct flight mode (#27918)
PX4/PX4-Autopilot: docs/en/flight_modes_fw/descend.md

# Descend Mode (Fixed-Wing)

_Descend_ is a [failsafe](../config/safety.md) fallback mode.
It is activated automatically by PX4 and cannot be selected by the pilot. It only appears as a status label.

> The vehicle descends open-loop: it circles at a fixed bank angle ([FW_GPSF_R](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#FW_GPSF_R)) and loses altitude, but does not control its ground position, so the circle drifts with the wind.

Reviewer: > loses altitude
Specify the [descend rate](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/964de333c48e6729bfee334a3cd535ef459e0ee7/src/modules/fw_mode_manager/FixedWingModeManager.cpp#L701).

It is the last resort used when the vehicle must come down but has no valid position estimate for a controlled descent.

::: info

- Mode is automatic and cannot be selected by the user.
- Requires only attitude, so it works without a position estimate.
- The vehicle first loiters at the current altitude for [FW_GPSF_LT](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#FW_GPSF_LT) seconds (waiting for the estimate to recover) before starting to descend.

:::

## When It Occurs

Descend is the bottom of the failsafe chain (`Hold → Return → Land → Descend`).
PX4 falls through to it whenever a failsafe needs to bring the vehicle down or hold position but the position estimate is missing, so none of the higher options can run. For example:

> - Losing the position estimate while landing, e.g. GPS fails during [Land](../flight_modes_fw/land.md): the vehicle keeps descending, but now open-loop as _Descend_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Losing the position estimate while landing, e.g. GNSS and airspeed sensors fail during [Land](../flight_modes_fw/land.md): the vehicle keeps descending, but now open-loop as _Descend_.
```

- Losing the position estimate in [Hold](../flight_modes_fw/hold.md), [Mission](../flight_modes_fw/mission.md) or [Return](../flight_modes_fw/return.md): with no position to hold, fly to, or return with, the failsafe escalates down to _Descend_.

> - A Return or Land failsafe (from RC loss, GCS/data link loss, low battery, geofence breach, …) triggered while no valid position estimate is available: Return and Land can't run, so it degrades to _Descend_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Return or Land failsafe (from manual control loss, GCS/data link loss, low battery, geofence breach, …) triggered while no valid position estimate is available: Return and Land can't run, so it degrades to _Descend_.
```
